Add release announcement blog article for Kubernetes v1.26 (#38123)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2022-12-06-kubernetes-1.25-blog.md

---
layout: blog
title: "Kubernetes v1.26: Electrifying"
date: 2022-12-6
slug: kubernetes-v1-26-release
---

**Authors**: [Kubernetes 1.26 Release Team](https://github.com/kubernetes/sig-release/blob/master/releases/release-1.26/release-team.md)

It's with immense joy that we announce the release of Kubernetes v1.26!

This release includes a total of 37 enhancements: eleven of them are graduating to Stable, ten are graduating to Beta, and sixteen of them are entering Alpha. We also have two features being deprecated or removed.

## Release theme and logo 

**Kubernetes 1.26: Electrifying**

\<image here>

The theme for Kubernetes v1.26 is _Electrifying_.

\<explanation of the theme>

## Major Themes
    
Kubernetes v1.26 is composed of many changes, brought to you by a worldwide team of volunteers. For this release, we have identified several major themes.

### Progress on the CSI migration

> Following the GA of the [core Container Storage Interface (CSI) Migration](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/tree/master/keps/sig-storage/625-csi-migration) feature in the previous release, CSI migration is an on-going effort that we've been working on for a few releases now, and this release continues to add (and remove) features aligned with the migration's goals.

Reviewer: Maybe link to the issue rather than the KEP - this'd match other items.

Author: True, although in this case it was on purpose, because the KEP contains a broader description of the purpose, and v1.25 release article also linked to it. Since here it's more about setting the context, I think it works.

#### Delegate FSGroup to CSI Driver graduated to Stable

This feature allows Kubernetes to [supply the pod's `FSGroup` to the CSI driver when a volume is mounted](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/2317) so that the driver can utilize mount options to control volume permissions. Previously, the kubelet would always apply the `fsGroup`ownership and permission change to files in the volume according to the policy specified  in the `Pod.spec.securityContext.fsGroupChangePolicy` field. Starting with this release, CSI drivers have the option to apply the `fsGroup` settings during attach or mount time of the volumes.

#### CSI migration for Azure File and vSphere graduated to Stable

> Both the [vSphere](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/1491) and [Azure](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/1885) in-tree driver migration to CSI have graduated to Stable.

Reviewer: Do we want to link to the docs for these storage drivers?

Author: Good idea, I have added a link to both repos, take a look.

#### In-tree GlusterFS driver removal

> Already deprecated in the v1.25 release, the [in-tree GlusterFS driver](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/3446) was removed in this release.

Reviewer: We're linking to the removal, not the driver, so:
```suggestion
Already deprecated in the v1.25 release, the in-tree GlusterFS driver was [removed](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/3446) in this release.
```

#### In-tree OpenStack Cinder driver removal

This release removed the deprecated in-tree storage integration for OpenStack (the `cinder` volume type). You should migrate to external cloud provider and CSI driver from https://github.com/kubernetes/cloud-provider-openstack instead. For more information, visit [Cinder in-tree to CSI driver migration](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/1489).

### CRI v1alpha2 removed

> With the adoption of the [Container Runtime Interface](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/architecture/cri/) (CRI) and the [removal of dockershim] in v1.24 , the CRI is the supported and documented way through which Kubernetes interacts with different container runtimes. Each kubelet negotiates which version of CRI to use with the container runtime on that node.

Reviewer: Is `removal of dockershim` a broken hyperlink?

Author: It was, fixed.

> The Kubernetes project recommends using CRI version `v1`; in Kubernetes v1.25 the kubelet could also negotiate the use of CRI `v1alpha2` (which was deprecated along at the same time as adding support for the stable `v1` interface).

Reviewer: It's a bit more than a recommend. That's now the only version we support, right?

Author: Reworded it, it was meant to describe the previous situation but was not clear (I think it is now)

Kubernetes v1.26 dropped support for CRI `v1alpha2`. That [removal](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/110618) will result in the kubelet not registering the node if the container runtime doesn't support CRI `v1`. This means that containerd minor version 1.5 and older will not be supported in Kubernetes 1.26; if you use containerd, you will need to upgrade to containerd version 1.6.0 or later **before** you upgrade that node to Kubernetes v1.26. Other container runtimes that only support the `v1alpha2` are equally affected: if that affects you, you should contact the container runtime vendor for advice or check their website for additional instructions in how to move forward.

> ### Signing Kubernetes release artifacts graduates to Stable [SIG Release]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Signing Kubernetes release artifacts graduates to Stable
```

Introduced in [v1.24](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2022/05/03/kubernetes-1-24-release-announcement/), this feature constitutes a significant milestone in improving the security of the Kubernetes release process. All release artifacts are signed using [cosign](https://github.com/sigstore/cosign/), and both binary artifacts and images [can be verified](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/verify-signed-images/).

### Improvements to Kubernetes metrics

This release has several noteworthy improvements on metrics.

#### Metrics framework extension graduates to Alpha

> The **metrics framework extension** graduates to Alpha and documentation can now be [auto-generated](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/instrumentation/metrics/) for every metric in the Kubernetes codebase, improving the ability to identify the metrics exposed by different Kubernetes components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **metrics framework extension** graduates to Alpha and [documentation](/docs/reference/instrumentation/metrics/) is now published for every metric in the Kubernetes codebase.
```
The autogeneration is largely a detail that readers don't need to know about.

#### Component Service Level Indicators graduates to Alpha

> Also improving on the ability to consume Kubernetes metrics, the **component Service Level Indicators (SLIs)** has graduated to Alpha: by enabling the `ComponentSLIs` feature flag there will be an [additional metrics endpoint](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/112884) which allows the calculation of Service Level Objectives (SLOs) from raw healthcheck data converted into metric format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also improving on the ability to consume Kubernetes metrics, **component Service Level Indicators (SLIs)** have graduated to Alpha: by enabling the `ComponentSLIs` feature flag there will be an [additional metrics endpoint](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/112884) which allows the calculation of Service Level Objectives (SLOs) from raw healthcheck data converted into metric format.
```

#### Feature metrics are now available

**Feature metrics** are now available for each Kubernetes component, making it possible to [track whether each active feature gate is enabled](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/112690) by checking the component's metric endpoint for `kubernetes_feature_enabled`.

#### API server tracing

> _FIXME: API server tracing graduates to Beta [SIG Instrumentation] need clarification, https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/647 indicates this is not tracked for 1.26_

Reviewer: This isn't done.

Author: Indeed, will remove it - only kept it there because it was flagged as a major theme in the discussion and wanted to confirm.

### CEL in Admission Control graduates to Alpha [SIG API Machinery]

This feature introduces a `v1alpha1` API for [validating admission policies](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/3488), enabling extensible admission control via [Common Expression Language](https://github.com/google/cel-spec) expressions. Currently, custom policies are enforced via [admission webhooks](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/extensible-admission-controllers/), which, while flexible, have a few drawbacks when compared to in-process policy enforcement. To use, enable the `ValidatingAdmissionPolicy` feature gate and the `admissionregistration.k8s.io/v1alpha1` API via `--runtime-config`.

### Pod scheduling improvements

#### `PodSchedulingReadiness` graduates to Alpha

This feature introduces a `.spec.schedulingGates` field to Pod's API, to [indicate whether the Pod is allowed to be scheduled or not](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/3521

> ). External users/controllers can use this field to hold a Pod from scheduling based on their policies and needs.

Reviewer 2: Not sure if this closing parenthesis in a new line will affect to the markdown syntax.
Should we move it to the end of the previous line?

```suggestion
External users/controllers can use this field to hold a Pod from scheduling based on their policies and needs.
```

Reviewer 3: The link is displayed correctly on the rendered version (see [preview](https://deploy-preview-38123--kubernetes-io-main-staging.netlify.app/blog/2022/12/06/kubernetes-v1-26-release/#podschedulingreadiness-graduates-to-alpha)),
but I suggest to do so because
- some of the tools (e.g., [`linkchecker.py`](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/tree/main/scripts#linkcheckerpy)) might not recognize the markdown hyperlink codes with line-breaks.
- it will not be recognized as a complete markdown hyperlink code, preventing some smart features (e.g., IntelliSense) from working.
- ...

Author: I will change it (the proposed commit looks like it removes the end paren instead of the newline).

* [Support for Windows privileged containers](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/1981)
* [vSphere in-tree to CSI driver migration](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/1491)
* [Allow Kubernetes to supply pod's fsgroup to CSI driver on mount](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/2317)
* [Azure file in-tree to CSI driver migration](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/1885)
* [Job tracking without lingering Pods](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/2307)
* [Service Internal Traffic Policy](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/2086)
* [Kubelet Credential Provider](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/2133)
* [Support of mixed protocols in Services with type=LoadBalancer](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/1435)
* [Reserve Service IP Ranges For Dynamic and Static IP Allocation](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/3070)
* [CPUManager](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/3570)
* [DeviceManager](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/3573)

### Deprecations and Removals

> XX features were [deprecated or removed](/blog/2022/11/18/upcoming-changes-in-kubernetes-1-26/) from Kubernetes with this release. <FIXME: how many do we want to indicate here? Just the KEP? These two? More?>

Reviewer: This is not done yet.

Author: Updated.

---
layout: blog
title: "Kubernetes v1.26: Electrifying"
date: 2022-12-6
slug: kubernetes-v1-26-release
---

**Authors**: [Kubernetes 1.26 Release Team](https://github.com/kubernetes/sig-release/blob/master/releases/release-1.26/release-team.md)

It's with immense joy that we announce the release of Kubernetes v1.26!

> This release includes a total of 37 enhancements: eleven of them are graduating to Stable, ten are graduating to Beta, and sixteen of them are entering Alpha. We also have two features being deprecated or removed.

Reviewer 4: 38 enhancements AFAIK.

2 features being deprecated.. AFAIK just one? which one have I missed? https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/281

Author: Yes, good catch, there was one that was added to the milestone a few days ago, will add it.

There's only one tracked enhancement in the board, but at the time of writing we were also aware of the GlusterFS removal, but the actual total is further down and it's 12, with API changes. We can either just mention the 1 tracked removal, or the total identified - either way I need to update this.

Author: They aren't just smaller API changes though: we have the klog removal, GlusterFS removal, in-tree credential code, etc - they are all listed in the "Deprecations and Removals" section further down this article. There are 3 API removals (one of them with significant impact), 3 deprecations, the rest of the removals are not substantially different from one another in terms of relevance, which makes it difficult to separate. 

In terms of tracking, only the Dynamic Kubelet Configuration exists as a deprecation. In reality, we have (at least) the 12 identified ones.

One way around this is to mention the  3 "major" ones, which are exactly the ones that are described as a Major theme (CRI, GlusterFS, Cinder), and say something like:

> [...] We also have 12 deprecations and removals, 3 of which detailed below due to their impact.

## Release theme and logo 

**Kubernetes 1.26: Electrifying**

\<image here>

The theme for Kubernetes v1.26 is _Electrifying_.

> Each Kubernetes release is the result of the coordinated effort of dedicated volunteers, and only made possible due to the use of a diverse and complex set of computing resources, spread out through multiple datacenters and regions worldwide. The end result of a release - the binaries, the image containers, the documentation - are then deployed on a growing number of personal, on-premises, and cloud computing resources. 

Reviewer 4: ...and only made possible due to the use of a diverse and complex set of computing resources...

IMO reads a bit like contributors are machines, lol

(feel free to rephrase my suggestion :D) 
```suggestion
Each Kubernetes release is the result of the coordinated effort of dedicated volunteers, supported by complex automation processes and tools, powered by a vast set of computing resources spread across multiple data centers and regions worldwide. The end result of this open source process are after each release - the Kubernetes binaries, container images, and documentation - which are then being used on a growing number of personal, on-premises, and cloud computing resources.
```

Author: Ok, got your point, but OTOH I don't thing the suggested alternative really "flows"... what about this (I've removed some words which are not really needed to make

> Each Kubernetes release is the result of the coordinated effort of dedicated volunteers, supported by complex automation processes and tools that are powered by a vast set of computing resources spread across multiple data centers worldwide. The result of this open source process - the Kubernetes binaries, container images, documentation, and others - is then used on a growing number of personal, on-premises, and cloud computing resources.

Reviewer 4: 👍

In this release we want to recognise the importance of all these building blocks on which Kubernetes is developed and used, while at the same time raising awareness on the importance of taking the energy consumption footprint into account: environmental sustainability is an inescapable concern of creators and users of any software solution, and the environmental footprint of sofware, like Kubernetes, an area which we believe will play a significant role in future releases.

> As a community, we always work to make each new release process better than before (in this release, we have [started to use Projects for tracking enhancements](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/projects/98/views/1), for example). If v1.24 "Stargazer" [had us looking upwards, to what is possible when our community comes together](/blog/2022/05/03/kubernetes-1-24-release-announcement/), and v1.25 "Combiner" [what the combined efforts of our community are capable of](/blog/2022/08/23/kubernetes-v1-25-release/), this v1.26 "Electrifying" is also dedicated to all of those whose individual motion, integrated into the release flow, made all of this possible.

Reviewer: I'd make “v1.24 Stargazer” and “v1.25 Combiner“ be the hyperlinks, and put the text after that into italics.

> ## Major Themes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Major themes
```

> Kubernetes v1.26 is composed of many changes, brought to you by a worldwide team of volunteers. For this release, we have identified several major themes.

Reviewer 4: point out this is just a subset and reference a place where all the changes can be discovered? Maybe reference release notes?

Reviewer 4: release notes are mentioned in a chapter below.. so scratch that :)

### Change in container image registry

> In the previous release, [Kubernetes changed the container registry](/blog/2022/11/28/registry-k8s-io-faster-cheaper-ga/), allowing the spread of the load across multiple Cloud Providers and Regions, a change that reduced the reliance on a single entity and provided a faster download experience for a large number of users.

Reviewer 4: (and now under community infrastructure)

Author: I've used the formulation of the previous blog. @puerco could you add your thoughts here?

> This release will be the first one that will be exclusively published in the new [registry.k8s.io](http://registry.k8s.io) image registry: no tags from v1.26 will be published, and only tags from releases before v1.25 will continue to be updated, in the (now legacy) k8s.gcr.io image registry. Check [this recent article](/blog/2022/11/28/registry-k8s-io-faster-cheaper-ga/) for more information on the motivation, advantages, and implications of this significant change.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This release will be the first one that will be exclusively published in the new [registry.k8s.io](http://registry.k8s.io) image registry: no tags from v1.26 will be published, and only tags from releases before v1.25 will continue to be updated, in the legacy k8s.gcr.io container image registry.
```

remove the last sentence since we already mentioned the article the sentence before?

Author: Yes, we should avoid the repetition. OTOH, I think it's important to point people towards the explanation. What I will do here is to replace the first link with the initial registry PR that gost merge in v1.25, and then keep the last sentence as an additional source of information. THis, I think works well - it's the first link that is out of context IMO.

> This release will be the first one that will be exclusively published in the new [registry.k8s.io](http://registry.k8s.io) image registry: no tags from v1.26 will be published, and only tags from releases before v1.25 will continue to be updated, in the (now legacy) k8s.gcr.io image registry. Refer to [this recently published article](/blog/2022/11/28/registry-k8s-io-faster-cheaper-ga/) for more information on the motivation, advantages, and implications of this significant change.

Reviewer: One of these is right:
```suggestion
This release of Kubernetes is the first that is exclusively published in the new `registry.k8s.io` container image registry. In the (now legacy) `k8s.gcr.io` image registry, no container images tags for v1.26 will be published, and only tags from releases before v1.25 will continue to be updated. Refer to [registry.k8s.io: faster, cheaper and Generally Available](/blog/2022/11/28/registry-k8s-io-faster-cheaper-ga/) for more information on the motivation, advantages, and implications of this significant change.
```
or
```suggestion
This release of Kubernetes is the first that is exclusively published in the new `registry.k8s.io` container image registry. In the (now legacy) `k8s.gcr.io` image registry, no container images tags for v1.26 will be published, and only tags from releases before v1.26 will continue to be updated. Refer to [registry.k8s.io: faster, cheaper and Generally Available](/blog/2022/11/28/registry-k8s-io-faster-cheaper-ga/) for more information on the motivation, advantages, and implications of this significant change.
```

The difference is the text immediately following “only tags from releases before“

Author: It's the first one, v1.25 will not be updated as well. Good change to the article reference, it looks much better with the title.

### CRI v1alpha2 removed

> With the adoption of the [Container Runtime Interface](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/architecture/cri/) (CRI) and the [removal of dockershim](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2022/02/17/dockershim-faq/) in v1.24, the CRI is the only supported and documented way through which Kubernetes interacts with different container runtimes. Each kubelet negotiates which version of CRI to use with the container runtime on that node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the adoption of the [Container Runtime Interface](/docs/concepts/architecture/cri/) (CRI)
and the [removal of dockershim](/blog/2022/02/17/dockershim-faq/) in v1.24, the CRI is the
only supported and documented way through which Kubernetes interacts with different
container runtimes. Each kubelet negotiates which version of CRI to use with the container
runtime on that node.
```

In the previous release, the Kubernetes project recommended using CRI version `v1`, but kubelet could still negotiate the use of CRI `v1alpha2`, which was deprecated.

> Kubernetes v1.26 drops support for CRI `v1alpha2`. That [removal](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/110618) will result in the kubelet not registering the node if the container runtime doesn't support CRI `v1`. This means that containerd minor version 1.5 and older will not be supported in Kubernetes 1.26; if you use containerd, you will need to upgrade to containerd version 1.6.0 or later **before** you upgrade that node to Kubernetes v1.26. Other container runtimes that only support the `v1alpha2` are equally affected: if that affects you, you should contact the container runtime vendor for advice or check their website for additional instructions in how to move forward.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kubernetes v1.26 drops support for CRI `v1alpha2`.
That [removal](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/110618) will result in the
kubelet not registering the node if the container runtime doesn't support CRI `v1`. This
means that containerd minor version 1.5 and older are not supported in Kubernetes
1.26; if you use containerd, you will need to upgrade to containerd version 1.6.0 or
later **before** you upgrade that node to Kubernetes v1.26. This applies equally to
any other container runtimes that only support the `v1alpha2`: if that affects you,
you should contact the container runtime vendor for advice or check their website
for additional instructions in how to move forward.
```

### Progress on the CSI migration process

Following the GA of the [core Container Storage Interface (CSI) Migration](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/tree/master/keps/sig-storage/625-csi-migration) feature in the previous release, CSI migration is an on-going effort that we've been working on for a few releases now, and this release continues to add (and remove) features aligned with the migration's goals.

> #### Delegate FSGroup to CSI Driver graduated to Stable

Reviewer: How about:
```suggestion
#### _Delegate FSGroup to CSI Driver_ graduated to stable
```

> This feature allows Kubernetes to [supply the pod's `FSGroup` to the CSI driver when a volume is mounted](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/2317) so that the driver can utilize mount options to control volume permissions. Previously, the kubelet would always apply the `fsGroup`ownership and permission change to files in the volume according to the policy specified  in the `Pod.spec.securityContext.fsGroupChangePolicy` field. Starting with this release, CSI drivers have the option to apply the `fsGroup` settings during attach or mount time of the volumes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This feature allows Kubernetes to
[supply the pod's `fsGroup` to the CSI driver when a volume is mounted](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/2317)
so that the driver can utilize mount options to control volume permissions.
Previously, the kubelet would always apply the `fsGroup`ownership and permission change
to files in the volume according to the policy specified  in the Pod's
`.spec.securityContext.fsGroupChangePolicy` field.
Starting with this release, CSI drivers have the option to apply the `fsGroup` settings during
attach or mount time of the volumes.
```

> #### CSI migration for Azure File and vSphere graduated to Stable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### CSI migration for Azure File and vSphere graduated to stable
```

Both the [vSphere](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/1491) and [Azure](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/1885) in-tree driver migration to CSI have graduated to Stable. You can find more information about them in the [vSphere CSI driver](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/vsphere-csi-driver) and [Azure File CSI driver](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/azurefile-csi-driver) repositories.

#### In-tree GlusterFS driver removal

Already deprecated in the v1.25 release, the in-tree GlusterFS driver was [removed](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/3446) in this release.

#### In-tree OpenStack Cinder driver removal

> This release removed the deprecated in-tree storage integration for OpenStack (the `cinder` volume type). You should migrate to external cloud provider and CSI driver from https://github.com/kubernetes/cloud-provider-openstack instead. For more information, visit [Cinder in-tree to CSI driver migration](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/1489).

Reviewer 4: I wonder if we shouldn't delete that, since we already announced that in our last blog post.

Author: Both removals, or just one? We could remove both in the interest of being more concise (they are all listed in the Removals section). I've kept them since they are part of the CSI migration theme and since I grouped them, the impact is smaller. If we remove them we should reflect that in the previous proposal of how many removals we want to highlight at the very start - in that case, we would just have the CRI API one.

Reviewer: We should leave these in. Don't assume readers read the previous blog article that announced upcoming removals.

Reviewer 4: +1 removing both

> ### Signing Kubernetes release artifacts graduates to Stable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Signing Kubernetes release artifacts graduates to beta
```
(https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/3031 says it's moving to beta?

> Introduced in [v1.24](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2022/05/03/kubernetes-1-24-release-announcement/), this feature constitutes a significant milestone in improving the security of the Kubernetes release process. All release artifacts are signed using [cosign](https://github.com/sigstore/cosign/), and both binary artifacts and images [can be verified](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/verify-signed-images/).

Reviewer 4: KEP issue https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/3031

Author: Added.

> Introduced in Kubernetes v1.24, [this feature](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/3031) constitutes a significant milestone in improving the security of the Kubernetes release process. All release artifacts are signed using [cosign](https://github.com/sigstore/cosign/), and both binary artifacts and images [can be verified](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/verify-signed-images/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Introduced in Kubernetes v1.24, [artifact signing](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/3031) constitutes a significant milestone in improving the security of the Kubernetes release process. All release artifacts are signed using [cosign](https://github.com/sigstore/cosign/), and both binary artifacts and images can be [verified](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/verify-signed-images/).
```

> ### Support for Windows privileged containers graduates to Stable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Support for Windows privileged containers graduates to stable
```

> ### Support for Windows privileged containers and graduates to Stable

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
### Support for Windows privileged containers graduates to Stable
```

> Privileged container support allows containers to run with similar access to the host as processes that run on the host directly. Support for this feature in Windows nodes, called HostProcess, will now [graduate to Stable](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/1981), enabling access to host resources (including network resources) from privileged containers.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Privileged container support allows containers to run with similar access to the host as processes that run on the host directly. Support for this feature in Windows nodes, called HostProcess Containers, will now [graduate to Stable](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/1981), enabling access to host resources (including network resources) from privileged containers.
```

> Privileged container support allows containers to run with similar access to the host as processes that run on the host directly. Support for this feature in Windows nodes, called HostProcess containers, will now [graduate to Stable](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/1981), enabling access to host resources (including network resources) from privileged containers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Privileged container support allows containers to run with similar access to the host as
processes that run on the host directly. The Windows node implementation of this,
_HostProcess containers_, is generally available in Kubernetes 1.26. A HostProcess 
container lets a Pod access host hardware and other components (such as the
host network stack).
```

### Improvements to Kubernetes metrics

This release has several noteworthy improvements on metrics.

#### Metrics framework extension graduates to Alpha

> The **metrics framework extension** graduates to Alpha and [documentation](/docs/reference/instrumentation/metrics/) is now published for every metric in the Kubernetes codebase.

Reviewer 4: 1. ref kep issue : https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/3498
2. Add one sentence mentioning `Internal` & `Beta` new stability levels: https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/tree/master/keps/sig-instrumentation/3498-extending-stability#proposal

Reviewer 4: @logicalhan perhaps you could have another look at this

Author: Added that information in a new sentence. Maybe we should drop the documentation part? It seems relevant to me in the way it improves the ability to explore things, but maybe it's inconsequential to end users?

> #### Component Service Level Indicators graduates to Alpha

Reviewer 4: kep issue: https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/3466 

maybe mentioning "Health SLIs" not just SLIs is more accurate

Author: Done.

> Also improving on the ability to consume Kubernetes metrics, [component health Service Level Indicators (SLIs)](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/3466) have [graduated to Alpha](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/112884): by enabling the `ComponentSLIs` feature flag there will be an additional metrics endpoint which allows the calculation of Service Level Objectives (SLOs) from raw healthcheck data converted into metric format.

Reviewer: (opinion) Are these really a major theme? They're both only alpha.

#### Feature metrics are now available

**Feature metrics** are now available for each Kubernetes component, making it possible to [track whether each active feature gate is enabled](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/112690) by checking the component's metric endpoint for `kubernetes_feature_enabled`.

### Dynamic Resource Allocation graduates to Alpha

> [Dynamic Resource Allocation](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/blob/master/keps/sig-node/3063-dynamic-resource-allocation/README.md) is a new feature that puts resource scheduling in the hands of 3rd-party developers: it moves away from the limited "countable" interface for requesting access to resources (e.g. `nvidia.com/gpu: 2`), providing an API more akin to that of persistent volumes. Under the hood, it uses the [Container Device Interface](https://github.com/container-orchestrated-devices/container-device-interface) (CDI) to do its device injection. This feature is blocked by the `DynamicResourceAllocation` feature gate.

Reviewer 4: PTAL @pohly

> [Dynamic Resource Allocation](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/blob/master/keps/sig-node/3063-dynamic-resource-allocation/README.md) is a new feature that puts resource scheduling in the hands of 3rd-party developers: it moves away from the limited "countable" interface for requesting access to resources (e.g. `nvidia.com/gpu: 2`), providing an API more akin to that of persistent volumes. Under the hood, it uses the [Container Device Interface](https://github.com/container-orchestrated-devices/container-device-interface) (CDI) to do its device injection. This feature is blocked by the `DynamicResourceAllocation` feature gate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Dynamic Resource Allocation](/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/dynamic-resource-allocation/)
is a new alpha feature that puts resource scheduling in the hands of 3rd-party developers:
it moves away from the limited "countable" interface for requesting access to resources
(e.g. `nvidia.com/gpu: 2`), providing an API more akin to that of [persistent volumes](/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/).
Under the hood, it uses the [Container Device Interface](https://github.com/container-orchestrated-devices/container-device-interface) (CDI)
to do its device injection.
```

> [Dynamic Resource Allocation](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/blob/master/keps/sig-node/3063-dynamic-resource-allocation/README.md) is a new feature that puts resource scheduling in the hands of 3rd-party developers: it moves away from the limited "countable" interface for requesting access to resources (e.g. `nvidia.com/gpu: 2`), providing an API more akin to that of persistent volumes. Under the hood, it uses the [Container Device Interface](https://github.com/container-orchestrated-devices/container-device-interface) (CDI) to do its device injection. This feature is blocked by the `DynamicResourceAllocation` feature gate.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
[Dynamic Resource Allocation](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/blob/master/keps/sig-node/3063-dynamic-resource-allocation/README.md) is a new feature that puts resource scheduling in the hands of third-party developers, It offers an alternative to the "countable" interface for requesting access to resources (e.g. `nvidia.com/gpu: 2`), providing an API more akin to that of persistent volumes. Under the hood, it uses the [Container Device Interface](https://github.com/container-orchestrated-devices/container-device-interface) (CDI) to do its device injection. This feature is blocked by the `DynamicResourceAllocation` feature gate.
```

Author: I was changing the filename at the same time, but I reflected the above changes in the latest commit, thanks! Take a look and lgtm if you think it's fine.

Reviewer 6: LGTM

### CEL in Admission Control graduates to Alpha

> This feature introduces a `v1alpha1` API for [validating admission policies](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/3488), enabling extensible admission control via [Common Expression Language](https://github.com/google/cel-spec) expressions. Currently, custom policies are enforced via [admission webhooks](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/extensible-admission-controllers/), which, while flexible, have a few drawbacks when compared to in-process policy enforcement. To use, enable the `ValidatingAdmissionPolicy` feature gate and the `admissionregistration.k8s.io/v1alpha1` API via `--runtime-config`.

Reviewer: Features don't exactly **graduate** to alpha; instead, they arrive as a _new_ alpha feature.

### Pod scheduling improvements

Kubernetes v1.26 introduces some relevant enhancements to the ability to better control scheduling behavior.

> #### `PodSchedulingReadiness` graduates to Alpha

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Alpha support for Pod scheduling readiness
```

> This feature introduces a `.spec.schedulingGates` field to Pod's API, to [indicate whether the Pod is allowed to be scheduled or not](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/3521). External users/controllers can use this field to hold a Pod from scheduling based on their policies and needs.

Reviewer: Features don't exactly **graduate** to alpha; instead, they arrive as a _new_ alpha feature.

> #### `NodeInclusionPolicyInPodTopologySpread` graduates to Beta

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### `nodeInclusionPolicy` for pod topology spread constraints graduates to beta
```

By specifying a `nodeInclusionPolicy` in `topologySpreadConstraints`, you can control whether to [take taints/tolerations into consideration](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/3094) when calculating Pod Topology Spread skew.

> #### `MatchLabelKeysInPodTopologySpread` graduates to Beta

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Label matching for pod topology spread constraints graduates to beta
```

Specifying `matchLabelKeys` in `topologySpreadConstraints` will make the values of the labels deduced from the pod being scheduled, simplifying pod specs. This can be used in a Deployment to match only the pods of the new revision during a rolling upgrade, without the need to know its value.

## Other Updates

> ### Graduations to Stable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Graduations to stable
```

This release includes a total of eleven enhancements promoted to Stable: 

* [Support for Windows privileged containers](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/1981)
* [vSphere in-tree to CSI driver migration](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/1491)
* [Allow Kubernetes to supply pod's fsgroup to CSI driver on mount](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/2317)
* [Azure file in-tree to CSI driver migration](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/1885)
* [Job tracking without lingering Pods](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/2307)
* [Service Internal Traffic Policy](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/2086)
* [Kubelet Credential Provider](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/2133)
* [Support of mixed protocols in Services with type=LoadBalancer](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/1435)
* [Reserve Service IP Ranges For Dynamic and Static IP Allocation](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/3070)
* [CPUManager](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/3570)
* [DeviceManager](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/3573)

> ### Deprecations and Removals

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Deprecations and removals
```

### Project Velocity

	The [CNCF K8s DevStats](https://k8s.devstats.cncf.io/d/12/dashboards?orgId=1&refresh=15m) project aggregates a number of interesting data points related to the velocity of Kubernetes and various sub-projects. This includes everything from individual contributions to the number of companies that are contributing, and is an illustration of the depth and breadth of effort that goes into evolving this ecosystem.

In the v1.26 release cycle, which [ran for 14 weeks](https://github.com/kubernetes/sig-release/tree/master/releases/release-1.26) (September 5 to December 6), we saw contributions from [916 companies](https://k8s.devstats.cncf.io/d/9/companies-table?orgId=1&var-period_name=v1.25.0%20-%20v1.26.0&var-metric=contributions) and [1583 individuals](https://k8s.devstats.cncf.io/d/66/developer-activity-counts-by-companies?orgId=1&var-period_name=v1.25.0%20-%20v1.26.0&var-metric=contributions&var-repogroup_name=Kubernetes&var-country_name=All&var-companies=All&var-repo_name=kubernetes%2Fkubernetes).

## Upcoming Release Webinar

> Join members of the Kubernetes v1.26 release team on <FIXME date> to learn about the major features of this release, as well as deprecations and removals to help plan for upgrades. 

Reviewer 4: @fsmunoz we can update the date now ;)

Author: Yes, will do it at the end of today :D

For more information and registration, visit the [event page](https://community.cncf.io/events/details/cncf-cncf-online-programs-presents-cncf-live-webinar-kubernetes-v126-release/).

## Get Involved

The simplest way to get involved with Kubernetes is by joining one of the many [Special Interest Groups](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/sig-list.md) (SIGs) that align with your interests. 
Have something you’d like to broadcast to the Kubernetes community? Share your voice at our weekly [community meeting](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/communication), and through the channels below:

* Find out more about contributing to Kubernetes at the [Kubernetes Contributors](https://www.kubernetes.dev/) website
* Follow us on Twitter [@Kubernetesio](https://twitter.com/kubernetesio) for the latest updates
* Join the community discussion on [Discuss](https://discuss.kubernetes.io/)
* Join the community on [Slack](http://slack.k8s.io/)

> * Post questions (or answer questions) on [Server Fault](https://serverfault.com/questions/tagged/kubernetes).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Post questions (or answer questions) on [Server Fault](https://serverfault.com/questions/tagged/kubernetes)
```

Author: Done, but is it a style guideline not to use final periods in lists?

Reviewer: It's fine either way but be consistent within one page

> * Share your Kubernetes [story](https://docs.google.com/a/linuxfoundation.org/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScuI7Ye3VQHQTwBASrgkjQDSS5TP0g3AXfFhwSM9YpHgxRKFA/viewform)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Share](https://docs.google.com/a/linuxfoundation.org/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScuI7Ye3VQHQTwBASrgkjQDSS5TP0g3AXfFhwSM9YpHgxRKFA/viewform) your Kubernetes story
```
